.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH aam2mail 1 "March 2012" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
aam2mail \- Anonymous shared mailbox scanner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aam2mail
{ --start | --stop | --restart | --help }
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aam2mail
extracts messages, by subject, from a Usenet Newsgroup. For many years the
Newsgroup alt.anonymous.messages has been used as a shared mailbox for users of
anonymous messaging solutions.  Messages for multiple users are delivered to
the mailbox and then extracted by their rightful recipient using Subject header
matching.
.P
Subjects can be identified in plain-text but more frequently a form of encoding
is employed. This encoding prevents messages being linked to a common recipient
by the Subject header's content.  There are two supported encoding methods,
known as eSub and hSub.  They both work by generating a hash consisting of a
secret key and public information contained within the message's Subject
header. When a collision occurs, the message is known to belong to the holder
of the secret.
.P
.B aam2mail
allows the user to define multiple sources (Newsservers) for retrieval of
messages from alt.anonymous.messages. Messages are then read from all the
sources, and scanned for Subject header collisions.  Any number of plain-text,
eSub or hSub secrets can be supplied for matching purposes.  Once a message is
identifed, it is stored locally in either \fIMaildir\fP or \fImbox\fP format
for decryption by a standard MUA, such as \fBMutt\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --config
Override the default ~/.aam2mail configuration file.
.TP
.B --start
Start aam2mail as a daemon
.TP
.B --stop\ \ 
Stop the aam2mail daemon. No further actions will be performed until the
daemon is restarted or aam2mail is manually run.
.TP
.B --restart
Restart the aam2mail daemon.  The daemon should be restarted after a
configuration change or a logrotate.
.TP
.B --help\ 
Display a short help message
.SH FILES
This section describes the user-configurable files in \fBaam2mail\fP.
.TP
.B .aam2mailrc
This is the main configuration file.  It defines all the options relating to
the function of aam2mail, including the options to override the locations of
all the other configuration files.  By default \fB.aam2mailrc\fP resides in
$HOME.  The path and filename can be overridden with the \fB--config\fP option
or by setting the Environment Variable \fBAAM2MAIL\fP.
.P
.IP
The \fB.aam2mailrc\fP file is only required if a default option needs to be
overridden.  A sample config file \fBconfig.sample\fP is provided with the
distribution and contains details of each supported option.
Default=$HOME/.aam2mailrc
.TP
.B servers
The servers file contains a list of the full-qualified hostnames for the
newsservers that \fBaam2mail\fP should download from. One newsserver is
normally sufficient but more will reduce the minor risk of lost messages.
.P
.IP
.B aam2mail
will attempt to deduplicate downloading of messages when working with multiple
newsservers.  This is most effective if the newsservers are synchronized. I.e.
The same messages are being read from each server during the same operation.
This may not be the case if \fBfetch_limit\fP is less than the number of
messages on the server and \fBprocess_backlog\fP is true.
Default=$HOME/aam2mail/etc/servers
.P
.TP
.B subject_plain
Contains a list of the plain-text subjects the user would like to retrieve from
the newsserver. This file is case-sensitive.
Default=$HOME/aam2mail/etc/subject_plain
.P
.TP
.B subject_hsub
Contains a list of the hSub secrets that \fBaam2mail\fP should generate
collisions for when looking for subject matches.
Default=$HOME/aam2mail/etc/subject_hsub
.P
.TP
.B subject_esub
Contains a list of eSub subjects and keys for generating collisions with
subject headers. Unlike the other subject_files, esub requires two parameters
per line.  These should be seperated with a \fBTab\fP character.
Default=$HOME/aam2mail/etc/subject_esub
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AAM2MAIL
Overrides the default path ($HOME/.aam2mailrc) for the master configuration
file.  This setting can be overridden with the \fB--config\fP option.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B aam2mail --start
Start \fBaam2mail\fP in non-interactive, daemon mode.
.TP
.B aam2mail --config=/etc/aam2mail
Start \fBaam2mail\fP in the current console session and use \fI/etc/aam2mail\fP
as the configuration file.
